Now let's add the account activation tests.
So at the moment, our tests are failing for the account activation because the component is dependent
on this activated root.
But in.
In spec.
We have nothing about it.
It's coming from the router module, but here we are not importing the router module or we are not doing
anything about it.
So we are going to fix that part.
But first, let's add our test, removing the default test.
And our first test is it sends account activation request.
So we are rendering the component and we are expecting a request to be going to backend.
And for this one we need to import HTP client testing module.
So let's update this configure test module part.
So we are going to import the CTP client testing module.
It's coming from angular common HTP testing module.
Then we are going to interact with the HTP testing controller.
So let's make sure we are injecting that one as well.
We did that in the sign up component spec.
Here we have the ECB testing controller and we inject it like this.
So just copying this part and doing that right here.
So we have first let's import this testing controller and we will have the variable with testing controller.
Let's have that one here.
In this one, we are going to send a request and that request is going to be including the token in
the URL.
So we we must be passing that token to the component.
So we must be handling this subscription for the activated root params part and we can achieve that
in the test like this.
So.
We have declarations, we have imports for the conflict testing module and we also have providers.
And in this one we can.
This is an array and there is objects in this array and the provider object is like this.
We are going to provide activated root.
So instead of the actual activate throughout, we are providing our own version here and for the the
params right here.
We are telling use value and for the params.
Here, we will have our own observable.
At the moment we don't have it, but we will create it right here.
Let's say here in the B for each, let's create that observable.
So we have this, let's say, observable.
This is new observable.
And as an object it's going to be.
If you remember the the params object, this one was like this.
There is ID and it has corresponding value.
So this is an object.
Having ID and id has the string type of value.
Let's import the observable first from the JS.
And in a constructor right here, we have the function for getting the subscriber.
So let's have the variable of subscriber here at subscriber.
And initially it's just not so to.
To tell that his compiler not to complain about it adding exclamation mark here and this is subscriber
type of.
Object and.
Again, this is generic and the type is going to be this one.
It's going to be taking a payload with this type, having ID and corresponding instead of defining types
like this.
Let's do it here.
Let's say route params.
And it's having the ID string.
So this is subscribing to params and the observable is basically publishing the root params.
So we are going to take this sub and assign it to the subscriber here.
Is up like this.
So before each of these tests we have the observable this observable is taking the subscriber and assigning
to the variable here.
And this observable is going to be used for the activated root params property.
So activated root is this one root and the params is the observable we are overriding in the test.
So we have our setup ready.
So let's go into the test.
So it's going to be sending account activation request.
So initially this.
This page will be open with the specific URL.
So to mimic that behavior, all we need to do is just calling subscriber with the next and is a value
we can pass.
Something like this ID is going to be, let's say, 1 to 3.
So.
This is the part right here we are calling the subscription with the value.
So we will be receiving this 1 to 3 here.
Then we are going to make an STP because to back end and to to handle that request in the test, we
are going to be testing controller and we are expecting a request to be going to this one.
We can go with the expect one or we can go with the match and the path will be API one zero users token
and the token part which is 1 to 3.
So this is not limiting the request count.
In the end we can use this one.
Let's say this is the requests, this can be multiple requests.
So we are just going to do the assertion based on like this expect requests and it has length property
and it's going to be one.
So we expect one request to be sent to this endpoint.
So our test is ready.
Let's save this one.
So this test is failing.
But the fail reason is instead of one, we received zero for this.
There is no request at the moment.
The error we see previously is gone because now we are providing the activated route and the previous
error was about the missing that part.
So let's fix this one.
We are going to make an epic because and let's let's do that in user service again.
Let's have a function here like activate.
And let's take the token, which is going to be a string.
And we are going to this strategic alliance and the request will be posed.
And the path will be API one zero users token and adding.
So token to the URL and there's a payload.
Let's go with an empty request, buddy.
So we have the the activate function.
Now we are going to use it in activate component.
So let's inject that one as well.
Private user service type of user service.
So here now we don't need to console this one.
So we are going to call this user service.
Activate and we can pass the ID coming from this forum so we can take the ID like this.
This is not working because the type of params does not have this property.
So we can go like this.
Params id.
So this is going to be making the API call.
But to actually make the API call, we need to call the subscriber as well.
Otherwise it's not triggering the DB request.
So at the moment we are not interested in the response.
So just passing an empty function for the subscription.
So let's save this one.
It saved the changes and I'm withholding the test.
Sometimes I had to manually reload the tests, so I reloaded and the test run.
And here we see the tests are passing.
Now let's add our next test.
So we are making the API request now, but let's show a success message to a user.
So adding a new test, it displays activation success message when token is valid.
So we are going to let's copy from previous test and paste in here.
Now instead of dealing with the multiple requests, let's make sure this is going to be expect one so
we receive it, this one request and it's going to be request and we are going to return a success response
with just calling flash with empty object.
Then this is going to be changing the UI.
So make sure that let's make sure we call the fixture detect changes here.
Then we are going to look for a message.
But for displaying this message, let's use our third component.
We have used this one previously in the signup component right here.
This is for the success signup case.
And we were using alert to display this message to user.
So we will do the same thing.
And the let's open the third component is HTML.
And for querying this element, let's go with the CSS selectors here.
So query it like this.
We are going to let's get the alert component and we get it by fixture, native element, query selector
and we are going to get the alert.
And in the end we expect this alert text content to contain account is activated.
So this is the test.
Let's save this one.
Now this one is failing because we are not showing this component.
There is no alert component at the moment.
Now let's fix this in activate component.
We are going to use the alert component here and we are just going to remove this each one.
Instead, we are going to have app alert and the text is going to be this one account is activated.
So let's say this one.
And as test is still failing.
But if we checked the browser, let's go to activate page.
Here we are seeing this account is activated message visible.
The test is failing because the alert.
Component is not declared here in the app app module.
The component is coming from the shared module and therefore it is declared in the application.
But in the test we are just testing this component and we only have this dependent module imported here.
But we didn't declare the the used other components.
So let's add the alert component here and let's switch to the test console again.
Let's save this one.
Now the tests are passing.
So we have the success case and let's add the fail condition.
So just copying this test, it displays activation, success, message and pasting after that.
Now it displays activation failure message when token is invalid.
And let's say the token will be like this four or five six.
We are not really making the API request here, but let's have like different values because like one,
two, three is reflecting the success case and let's say the four, five, six is reflecting the failed
case.
So we are going to have the request to this endpoint four, five, six.
And this time we are going to not just return an empty object, but we are going to also set the status,
which is going to be 400.
And the status text is bad request.
So this is an error response and generally for the validation error.
So like the tokens, invalid cases can be considered like validation.
So returning 400.
And again, we are querying the alert component, and this time we are going to see the message.
Let's set the message.
Activation.
Failure.
So saving this one.
And this is failing in the space activation failure message when token is invalid.
And let's fix this one.
Currently we are just displaying the success message without waiting the API response.
But since we have two cases at the moment, either success or fail, we must be displaying these alerts
dependent on the response we are receiving.
So an activate component right here.
At the moment we are just having the subscription, but we are not handling the response.
So we are going to handle the the success and error cases.
And for those, let's pass the subscribe object and we will have this next.
And in this case, we are going to update property in this class which is going to be reflecting the
activation success and for the error, we are going to
update the property to reflect the error and let's say we will have this activation status property
which will not be null and it can have the values either success or failed.
So we can use same property and in the next we can say this activation status is success and in error
case this activation status will be failed.
And then we can use this one in the template.
Let's open the activate component template.
And basically we will have two alerts.
The other one is having the text for activation failure and the success case will be visible.
Then like we will have engine.
If and when activation status is equal to success, then we will display the account is activated.
But if it is fail.
We are going to display this activation failure message.
So let's say these changes again, I need to reload the.
Browser and tests are passing.
And if we open browser.
The actual request is going to be.
And at the moment, like we are just going to activate one or two and one or two is not really a valid
token.
So Hpakant is returning this activation failure, but the current app load component is not having anything
about the styling in terms of like success or fail.
We only have one type and that's open the third component.
It is by default success.
But if we check the alert component in bootstrap, it has other styles like primary, secondary success,
danger, warning for light.
So like this danger fits to the error cases.
So let's update the alert component.
So here opening the alert component to us and let's make sure we pass a property to this one.
And previously we did that in the button so we were passing this inputs disabled and API progress.
So for the alert we are going to have input and this is going to be let's say the input will be type
and the the type will have values like success.
A danger.
These are the bootstrap names, by the way.
And let's also add the info as well.
And initially, let's say this is going to be successful.
So it has default value if we don't set for this one.
And then the alert component, the class name right here will be having the type attribute used here.
And one of the way we can do this is let's again open the third component and let's have a function
get function, alert class.
So let's have class list here.
Initially, this is going to be continuing on the alert.
Then we are going to push.
To this array another value and that value is going to be like this alert, dash and type.
So alert success this time alert danger, alert info and like that.
And as a result it's going to be returning class list will be just returning a string joined with the
space and here in the alert component let's have.
The binding.
So this class will be taking its value from this third class, saving these changes.
At the moment we are not setting property in the activity component, so by default it's a success and
all we need to do is just for this activation failure case.
Let's say the type ill will be fail.
Not fail, but danger.
Danger.
Let's save this one.
Now, the activation failure alert is having this red color.
So this looks better.
So we handled the API request part and we are displaying either success or failure messages for the
account activation.